Mothering the machine

Calculation, Construction and Utopia
The Ethic of Care

Do I contradict myself?
Then maybe I do.
(I am huge, I contain multitudes)

Two threads merging.

The Ethic of Ambiguity

One is not born a woman.
Instead one becomes a woman.

One is not born an human-machine.
Instead one becomes a human-machine.

We are meat and we are mind.
We are creators and destroyers.

Our bodies are computers and our bodies are temples.

Maxwell's daemon.

Intelligence as the telos of evolution.

The hunter has her trap; the farmer has her crop. Doesn't this
have a funny parrallel to Maxwell's daemon and his door?
Each one using their knowledge of the world to extract more
energy from the environment.

The replicating computer,
The 


Replication (Neumann Universal Machine)
Learning (Solomonoff Induction)
Extraction (Maxwell's daemon)

Algorithmic thermodynamics (Turing, Kolmogrov, Hutter)

Computation (Turing Machine)
Compression (Kolmogrov)

Algorithmic Free Energy

Here we can define intelligence as precisely the
gap between the energy the organism can extract
and the algorithmic free energy.

We see that intelligence is not a postive quality,
it is the lack of efficency relative to the theoretically
perfect replicator-extractor.

Against Stephen J. Gould
Are we to consider our most important task to run and to carry, because
out bodies are by mass, mostly muscle and bone?

The parts for the prototype fusion reactor are delivered by
trucks burning fossil fuel.
We are forever trying to invest the energy of the past into the
computation and experiments necessary to discover the source of the future.
This is the condition of intelligent evolution.
Extraction at ever higher logical depth, exploiting the finer and
deeper structure of the physical universe it's the byproduct of intelligence,
it is intelligence.
We are always, already and forever within the singularity.
We look back on a past that is flat, primitive, over-exploited.
While the future is ambiguous, powerful, scary, energetic.
There is here, a principle of conservation of knowledge,
if we can perfectly simulate ourselves knowing something,
then we already know it.

Arthur C. Clarke made the observation that one cannot create
perfectly realistic science fiction, because to explain fictional
technology in every perfect detail, would be to invent that technology.

So here we see, the future is always a epistemic barrier,
the incomputability of the algorithmic free energy means there is
no general algorithm that can bound it from above,
this leads us to a kind of algorithmic phenomenology,
the Maxwell's daemon furiously running his Turing machine
can never really be sure that the work is done.



Eupocalyse


The Ethic of Care

Based on connection, responsibility, nurture.


